To conclude this module,
we're going to use optimization to come up
with an optimal Digital Advertising Plan.
The digital marketing industry is
very large and continues to grow.
This is directly related to
the growth in the number of
Internet users around the world.
The growth has been tremendous in both
developed, and developing countries.
Companies that want to have
a presence in the internet,
have a variety of goals, but
they also have some restrictions.
For example,
they have limited advertising budgets.
Therefore, it is really important for
them, to find the most effective way
of spending their advertising funds.
For the purpose of this example, we're
going to consider that there are many
types of digital advertising,
email marketing, search engine marketing,
display ads, remarketing, YouTube ads,
Gmail ads, social media ads,
and mobile ads to name a few.
Let's consider a company that wants to
increase revenue by increasing its brand
awareness.
The company wants to create
an advertising plan with search ads,
display ads, Gmail ads, and YouTube ads.
The company has collected
one year of conversion data.
In digital advertising, conversions
are defined as customer actions
that the company consider valuable.
Conversions may be purchases, sign-ups,
calls initiated directly from an ad,
calls to a phone number on the ad,
or downloads.
Tracking conversions is more
informative than tracking clicks.
Because a click only tells us that
a potential customer went to the website,
but it doesn't tell us whether
the customer performed a valuable action.
The company would like an advertising
plan that can be executed within
a budget limit.
The plan should a series
of policy requirements
that the company would like to impose.
This is what the company would
like to see in a feasible plan.
Total amount spent in digital
ads should not exceed $5,000.
A minimum of $1,000 should
be spent in display ads.
A minimum of $200 should
be spent in YouTube ads.
At least 60% of the budget should
be spent in display and search ads.
What is spent in YouTube ads should not
be more than what's spent in Gmail ads.
Gmail ads should not be more
than 10% of the budget.
And finally, the plan should generate
at least 1,500 conversations.
Let's take a look at how we can
create an optimization model
with the available data.
Locate and open the Excel file,
Digital Advertising.xlsx.
The input data that we have is
from a 2015 advertising campaign.
For each Ad type we have how much
the company pay for the Ads and
the total number of conversions.
The daily conversions are in
the conversion data tab.
The conversions are the sum
of each column.
The conversions divided by cost is
an estimate of the number of conversions
that each dollar spent in
an ad is able to generate.
For example, according to the data
we have that on average 0.34 of
our conversion is generated by
each dollar spent in search ads.
We also have revenue data for
each ad type, which we use to
calculate the return on investment.
ROI is calculated as revenue
minus cost divided by cost.
The decision variables in this
model are the Budget Allocations
to the four different Ad types.
Enter some arbitrary values to
check that the model works.
For example, enter 2,000, 2,000, 500 and
500 for Search, Display,
YouTube and Gmail.
The objective function is
the Total Net Revenue.
This is calculated with
the sum product function.
Since multiplying ROI by the budget
allocations results in revenue minus cost.
The model has seven constraints,
total add expenses is the sum
of all the budget allocations.
This has to be less than or
equal to $5,000.
To enforce the constraint that at least
60% of the budget much be spent in
display and search ads.
In cell I24 we add what we spend
in display and center ads and
in cell K24,
we calculate 60% of the budget.
The next constraint enforces that
one is spent in YouTube ads,
does not exceed what
is spent in Gmail ads.
The next constraint limits what
we can spend in Gmail ads,
this should be less
than 10% of the budget.
Cell calculates 10% of the budget,
which results in $500.
Finally, we need to make
sure that the number of
conversions that the plan is estimated
to generate, is at least 1,500.
You can see that these can be calculated
with the sum product of the budget
allocations and the conversions per cost.
Click on the ASP tab, the model
pane shows the optimization model.
The objective is to maximize F-15.
The decision variables are C-16 to C-19.
And the constraints are shown
on the normal constrains folder.
The mole includes non negativity
bounds for the variables.
The arbitrary solutions that
we entered is infant visible.
You can verify this by checking that
all the constrains are satisfied.
The estimated net revenue
is a little over $111,000.
To find the best plan, all you need
to do is click on the Solve button.
First, however, check that
the LP Standard Solver is selected.
Click on the Engine tab of the Model pane.
If the Standard LP Engine is not selected
you can choose it from the dropdown menu.
Now, click on the Solve button.
The optimization model prescribes a budget
allocation of $3,000 on such ads,
$1,000 on display ads, and
$500 each on YouTube and Gmail ads.
And this solution is feasible and also
optimal according to the company policies.
Now, click on the sensitivity
report tab to figure out
the effect of some of these policies.
Let's interpret some of the shadow
prices that are not zero.
The model estimates that ever
additional dollar of advertising
generates $22.00 of net revenue.
This estimate is based on
the ROI values in the model, and
it doesn't consider other
factors that effect sales.
The model imposes a minimum of
$1,000 to spent in display ads.
This constraint has
a shadow price of minus $1.
These value indicates that net
revenue will decrease by $1 for
each additional dollar that we
insist on spending in display ads.
The opposite is true, for the $4 shadow
price related to the limit on Gmail ads.
That is net revenue
would increase by $4 for
every additional dollar that we allow
the mail to allocate to Gmail ads.
The purpose of this video was to show you
an additional application of optimization
in an area that is no logistics or
transportation, I didn't want you to
think that this prescribed analytics too,
is limited to operations problems.
The modeling part requires
of their practice.
So I encourage you to think of problems
that you can formulate as optimization
models.
Go through the steps of
choosing the decision levels,
building the objective functions,
and enforcing constraints.
The more you do it, the easier it gets.
This concludes our module on models for
decision making.
We will build on this material in our
next and final module of our course.